So where do we get started?
Well, let's actually begin in our functions dot AP file and I'll explain why.
So functions dot B and we already have a class named JS block.
Well, I just want to create a new but similar class in the new class.
Our client side JavaScript is going to be super simple because it's just a static placeholder for the
editor screen.
So in this new class that we're going to create, we don't need any sort of JSF processing through packaged
JSON workflow tools.
And that would also mean that when we're loading the JavaScript file, we wouldn't need to look in the
build folder.
We could just look directly in the our blocks folder, right, for the super simple placeholder JavaScript
file.
And then finally in the new class that I want to create, the PHP render callback will be just assumed
and mandatory instead of opt in.
If my vision for this new class doesn't make sense yet, that's okay.
I think it'll become clear once we actually have it set up and working.
Also, just to be clear, you technically don't need to create a totally separate class.
You could continue to build out your Gsx block class and just have, you know, a fourth and fifth argument
that specifies these options.
But I actually think it would be simpler just to create a new class.
So this is what I'm going to do.
Let's just duplicate our Gsx block class definition.
So from the beginning of class, I'll just click at the start of that, scroll down to where class ends.
So it's right here before we start finding our instances.
So I'll just hold shift, click at the end of that and just copy and paste it, just completely duplicate
it.
So all include the new class, maybe above gsx block pasted in.
Okay.
So on this new duplicate copy, let's change the name to.
We could pick any name, but how about place holder block in the construct parentheses, the only incoming
argument would be name.
So we can get rid of render callback.
We can get rid of data.
In the construct function.
We would obviously want to keep and hold on to that name value, but we can get rid of this data line.
We can get rid of the render callback.
Cool.
Definitely keep this function called our render callback.
Let's scroll down to on init.
So when we're registering our script, just change this.
We don't want to look in the build folder, we just want to look in the our dash blocks folder.
The reason for this is because we don't need to even write JSA x.
The placeholder JavaScript is going to be so simple.
We can just write basic react code without the convenience of the x syntax.
That way we don't even need to worry about processing them and adding them to our package json file.
Cool.
Let's keep adjusting our new class.
We can get rid of this if check for data in the our args.
Let's just hard code it to always use the render callback.
So in this array of arguments I would just add a comma here quotes with the exact name of render underscore
callback arrow symbol.
And then you can just copy and paste this or I'll type it out with you.
So it's the array syntax dollar sign this comma, the name of the method.
So our render callback.
Cool.
So now it's not opt in, it's just assumed and mandatory.
We can get rid of this if check and then to clean things up further.
We really don't need a separate property called our array.
So if you wanted to, you could just take this array.
So from the word array to the closing parentheses, you could just take that and then just include it
here directly.
So get rid of that, just paste it in, and then we could get rid of this line of code.
Cool.
So we have our new class.
Let's use it.
So right after its definition and before J asks block, let's just create a new instance.
So let's say new place, holder, block, semicolon in the parentheses, let's make up a name.
Let's call it events and blogs.
Let's give that a save.
And now we can just go into the our blocks folder and create a new file with that matching name.
So events and blogs dot JS.
Now in this file, we don't need to include basically anything.
We really just need the very minimal code to register a block type.
And then we can just have a placeholder message that says, you know, this is the placeholder for events
and blogs.
In other words, you can go into your banner tags block, scroll up to the very, very top end to save
a bit of typing.
We can just copy and paste and borrow this register block type, block of code.
So I'll just copy those lines pasted into our new empty file.
The first thing we need to change is the way that we're calling register block type, because this file
is not going to be processed by our package dot JSON workflow.
Right?
In other words, to the official WordPress Scripts package isn't going to process and parse this JavaScript.
So instead of trying to import register, block type, let's just call it directly from the browser's
global scope.
So this would instead be.
WP Woops, let me controls your command Z to undo that.
So this code gets confused if it doesn't recognize the variable you're trying to use and you type dot
or tab for autocomplete.
So after you type WP and then we want to hit the DOT or period before you hit the data period, just
click escape out of this suggested menu.
And now we can actually type the dot, so WP dot blocks, dot register block type, we can leave the
namespace the same, but let's get rid of banner.
So the name for this specific block would be events and blogs.
Let's change the title to be human readable.
So events and blogs, we don't need any attributes whatsoever.
If you wanted to, you could leave the align attribute.
If you wanted this to appear full width in a page or post editor instead of just the template editor.
Right, so that would look like this, but I don't think that's necessary.
It doesn't need to look full width, so I'm just going to get rid of attributes altogether.
Now for the save value, let's just give it a function.
So function, parentheses, curly brackets that literally just returns null.
So we want 100% processing for this block.
Now for the edit component, this is the placeholder that will actually show up in the block editor.
So here's what I'm going to do.
We don't even need JS X.
We can literally just have a function here.
So function parentheses, curly brackets and just return.
Now instead of Jess X, you can actually just say WP dot element, dot create element.
So this is just a WordPress alias for Reax create element.
If you're not familiar with React, that's okay.
Essentially this is the alternate way of doing things.
So you don't even need JSF, you don't need any processing.
You can create an element or a component by just giving this three arguments.
So A comma, b, comma, C, the first is the type of element you want to create.
So let's just have a div.
The second argument is any props you want to give the component in a minute or two we can give it a
class name, but for right now, just to get this up and running, let's just not give it any props.
So let's say null.
And then finally, the third argument is the content or children that should be nested inside it.
So let's just have a string of text that says this is a placeholder.
Cool.
Let's give this a save.
And before we test it out, let's not forget to have a matching AP file in the our blocks folder with
the same name.
So I'm just going to create a new file name it events and blogs dot AP in that file.
For now, let's just say hello again from page B, give that a save and test it out.
So in the template editor screen, if we refresh and maybe below my banner or in between the two banners,
if I try to insert, well, let me search first for events.
There it is.
Events and blogs.
Give it a click.
Cool.
So we see this is a placeholder.
We didn't need any processing.
We can go ahead and click save and if we go refresh the front end, perfect.
Hello again from HP.
In a couple of minutes, we can worry about the actual AP in HTML.
That should be output here.
But before we get to that, let's first improve the editor appearance at least a little bit.
Right.
We can do better than this.
Why don't we at least add a tiny bit of success just to add a little bit of padding, maybe a background
color, so on and so forth.
So back in our JavaScript file events and blogs dot Jess instead of null.
For this second argument, you give this an object and this is essentially any props that you want to
give to the element.
Now, you absolutely could give it a prop called style, and then its value would be an object, and
then you give it the react named versions of CC properties.
But personally, I like to write my success in an actual CSV file.
So here's what I'm going to do.
Let's give you an object where the only property is just class name.
Call and give it a string of text and let's just make up a class name.
How about our dash placeholder dash block?
Cool.
Let's give that a save.
And now let's just go create a CAC class with that matching name.
So in our CC folder, you could create a brand new module file and then import it in the main style
that CSV file.
But for this exact reason, for quick and dirty fixes or quick and dirty features.
That's why I have this file called Shamed CC.
You don't need to worry about staying super organized in this file, so I would just jump into that
shame that CSV file up at the very, very top, let's say dot our placeholder block and let's just give
it a few basic styles.
So maybe padding 20 pixels, text a line center, let's bump up the font size a little bit.
So font size 1.65 REM.
And let's give it a background gradient from one shade of gray to a slightly lighter shade.
So background.
Give it a value.
Linear gradient.
Parentheses.
Call it semicolon.
We give it the degree.
So 180 degrees.
The first color, let's say didi tdd comma.
For the second color, just add ADHD.
Let's give that a save.
And then I'm remembering back in our JavaScript file just to clean things up.
We actually don't need this supports property so we could get rid of that entirely like this.
Cool.
Anyways, before we go refresh in the browser because we saved a change to one of our SPSS module files.
You do want to have your NPM run start task up and running.
So NPM run start that will bundle up the new access.
And now if we refresh in the template editor, throw that out a little bit.
Perfect.
This is a placeholder.
So now you can just give it a meaningful message.
So back in that JavaScript file, maybe change it to maybe events in blog's placeholder, you get the
idea.
I'm happy with this editor experience.
So now let's just work on the actual front, end up in HTML output, let's jump into our events and
blogs dot PHP file and there's no sense in reinventing the wheel.
We have already written back in our theme chapter the exact code to output if we look at the finished
product, this area.
So let's just go find that code so really quick.
Let me switch back to this window.
This is the fictional university theme folder and theme that we built together step by step back in
that earlier chapter.
So right now, if you just dig into the front page dot AP file and scroll down to about line number
13, you'll see this div with a class of full width split.
I'm just going to place my cursor at the start of that and then scroll down and I want everything right
before this div with a class of hero slider.
So I'm going to click right here.
I'm just going to copy all of that into my clipboard.
And then back in the new theme that we're building instead of this empty placeholder of Hello again
from PHP, just get rid of that paste in your clipboard.
Go ahead and save that and that's it.
We don't need to do anything.
We don't need to adjust anything or change anything at all if we go back and refresh.
Perfect.
Now, just to be clear here, if you really wanted to go the extra mile and go above and beyond, you
could create double the work for yourself and essentially create a client side JavaScript file, right?
For the editor experience that looked exactly like this and you could use the rest API to fetch the
exact data you want.
Well, actually, you can't fetch this data from the rest API.
You'd have to create your own custom end point in the rest API.
But you get my point.
If you really, really wanted to, you could create sort of a JavaScript alternate version of that just
for the whole what you see is what you get aspect.
But personally, I'm more than happy with this placeholder appearance.
In fact, I would actually prefer this overseeing this exact layout in the editor screen.
My logic for that is because there's nothing to actually click on and edit and customize.
I think it would be almost confusing to see that exact literal content appear right here.
So I am perfectly happy with this approach.
And in our next lesson, we're going to continue to build out the rest of the template using this new
IP based approach.
Let's keep our momentum rolling and I'll see you then.